Add a note about maven publish in the User Manual (#33586)
gradle/gradle: platforms/documentation/docs/src/docs/userguide/dep-man/publishing/publishing_maven.adoc

You can also configure any authentication details that are required to connect to the repository. See link:{groovyDslPath}/org.gradle.api.artifacts.repositories.MavenArtifactRepository.html[MavenArtifactRepository] for more details.

[[supported_maven_repositories]]
=== Supported Repositories

> Gradle's `maven-publish` plugin can be used to publish artifacts to a wide range of Maven-compatible repositories, including:

Reviewer: ❌  I believe this whole section would read better if we said that `maven-publish` is compatible with the [Maven `deploy` plugin](https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-deploy-plugin/) and thus supports the repositories that are compatible with it.

And then have a line explaining that Maven Central is moving away from that protocol and thus requires a different plugin.

Author: I just updated the wording. What do you think?

This includes a wide range of Maven-compatible repositories, such as:

* **Local repositories** (e.g. `~/.m2/repository`)
* **Custom remote Maven repositories**
* **Repository managers** like **Sonatype Nexus** and **JFrog Artifactory**
* **GitHub Packages**
* **Internal corporate Maven repositories**

> However, note that **link:https://central.sonatype.com/[Maven Central]** is moving away from the legacy protocol used by the link:https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-deploy-plugin/[Maven Deploy Plugin].
> Publishing to Maven Central now **requires a third-party plugin**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[[maven_central]]
=== Publishing to Maven Central

The [Maven Central Repository](https://central.sonatype.com/) service by Sonatype, known in the community as “Maven Central”, is one of the most popular repositories for publishing open source libraries and other distributable artifacts in the Java and Kotlin ecosystems.

**link:https://central.sonatype.com/[Maven Central]** is sunsetting [Sonatype OSS Repository Hosting service link:https://central.sonatype.org/publish/publish-guide/[OSSRH] 
and moving away from the legacy protocol used by the link:https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-deploy-plugin/[Maven Deploy Plugin], .
Effective June 30, 2025 publishing to Maven Central cannot be done with this plugin, 
and a specialized publishing plugin is needed.
There are multiple implementations available.

See the link:https://cookbook.gradle.org/integrations/maven-central/publishing/[Publishing to Maven Central] page in the Gradle Cookbook for the recommendations.

```

You can also configure any authentication details that are required to connect to the repository. See link:{groovyDslPath}/org.gradle.api.artifacts.repositories.MavenArtifactRepository.html[MavenArtifactRepository] for more details.

[[supported_maven_repositories]]
=== Supported Repositories

Gradle's `maven-publish` plugin is compatible with the link:https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-deploy-plugin/[Maven Deploy Plugin] and supports publishing to any repository that adheres to the same standards and protocols.
This includes a wide range of Maven-compatible repositories, such as:

* **Local repositories** (e.g. `~/.m2/repository`)
* **Custom remote Maven repositories**
* **Repository managers** like **Sonatype Nexus** and **JFrog Artifactory**
* **GitHub Packages**
* **Internal corporate Maven repositories**

[[maven_central]]
=== Publishing to Maven Central

> The service commonly known as *Maven Central*, operated by Sonatype and officially hosted at link:https://central.sonatype.com/[central.sonatype.com] is a widely used repository for distributing Java and Kotlin libraries.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand what "officially hosted" means. Can it be hosted unofficially?

Reviewer 2: Yes, works for me

> 💅 We may want to add the more widely known URLs from https://central.sonatype.org/consume/

We have a Cookbook page for that. So no need to add them here, can be done later

> As of **June 30, 2025**, Maven Central no longer supports the legacy deployment protocol used by the link:https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-deploy-plugin/[Maven Deploy Plugin].

Reviewer 2: It is linked in the cookbook, but we do not yet have an official announcement on our side. Blog is coming up later this month

> As of **June 30, 2025**, Maven Central no longer supports the legacy deployment protocol used by the link:https://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-deploy-plugin/[Maven Deploy Plugin].

Reviewer: We should link to the announcement from Sonatype.

This change also marks the deprecation of the OSSRH (OSS Repository Hosting) service.

Going forward, publishing to Maven Central **requires a dedicated third-party plugin**.

> Several community-supported options are available.

Reviewer 2: I deliberately didn't reference Community or third parties as there might be official plugins soon

Reviewer 3: Maybe `third-party` should be replaced by `external` or `separate` then?

Reviewer 2: Sonatype is not a third party.
